As we mentioned in our overview Data Studio contains
numerous reports and chart types and plenty of templates to get you started.
What it doesn't know until you tell it is where it's going to
get the data needed to populate those reports and charts.
A process for this is pretty straightforward.
Google's own helped document is an excellent source to refer back to if needed.
But for now, from the homepage of
the Data Studio interface unless you've already done this before,
you'll see that there are no reports built.
There's a big prompt at the center of the screen urging you to start here.
You can do that but you can also just click over on data sources.
Again, Google knows that you haven't done this
before and is urging you to create a data source.
To do this you can click on
the big blue button on the bottom right hand side of the screen.
Depending on your access levels and
whether or not you've been through this before there are any number
of screens that could come up that you would lead to complete in order to proceed.
Go ahead here and click on Get Started.
Google is asking you here if you're using this for personal use or for business.
Considering that you're doing this as
an educational endeavor I would go ahead and leave the company name blank.
You do of course always have to scroll all the way
down and acknowledge that you've read and agree to Google's terms of service.
Go ahead and hit "Accept".
Here Google is asking your preferences in terms of,
do you want some tips?
Do you want product announcements?
Do you want market research or offers?
I get a lot of these e-mails from a bunch of
other instances of Google products that I use.
So, for now I'm going to click no.
Then I'm going to click done.
Now, it's saying okay.
Go ahead and continue with your previous action.
In other words Google's ready for you now.
Go ahead and hit the big blue button again.
Here we are at a page that is going to list for us three different kinds of connectors.
Starting at the top,
you'll see the Google connectors which are built and
maintained by Google as part of Data Studio.
This is where you'll find the Google Analytics connector that we'll be using.
Take a quick moment to look at the rest of the connectors in this set.
You'll notice a number of Google's other products in here including BigQuery,
double click campaign manager, YouTube Analytics.
We won't be using any of them in this course but it's
important to know that they're here and that the connection between
those datasets and Data Studio's is going to be made in
the same way as we are about to demonstrate for Google Analytics.
The next category is somehow larger and shows partner connectors.
You'll see that Google is saying that these are built in
supported by Data Studio partners.
So, much longer list and you will of course see some brands of
note and some others that you may not know as you scroll through the list.
What you need to take away from this list is that Data Studio is
meant to be used for more than just website and mobile Analytics,
which is a demonstration of its flexibility but also provides one of its drawbacks
namely that there may be a great deal of
functionality that will be unfamiliar to you here as you begin.
That's okay. For now,
we're just going to focus on what we're going to accomplish with Analytics.
Remember that there are other capabilities in
this tool that might be helpful for you down the road.
The last category of connectors as we continue through
all of the partner ones are called the Open Source connectors.
They're built by members of the Data Studio open source community.
For this set of connectors and the one that came before it,
it's important to note some things.
Google is going to tell you at the bottom of
this page and these connectors are not provided by them,
supported by them and then make no promises or commitments about
the performance quality or content of the services in the applications that are provided.
Second, some of these connectors have been monetized by their creators.
Meaning there's a fee involved for using them.
Because of these two caveat,
it's recommended you not use any third party connectors unless
your client is expressed the willing to do so and does so knowing
that they need to rely on support for that connector to come from
the third party that's developed it and pay any associated costs for its use.
For now, let's head back to the top of the list and
locate the Google connector for Google Analytics.
Hover over it and then click "Select".
The next few clicks will take you through some permission screens.
Again if you've done this before,
you may or may not see any or all of them.
You have been here before.
You'll need to complete all of these steps.
Go ahead and click authorize.
Google is saying that it wants to access your Google account in order to
make this happen and is telling you that Google's studio,
Data Studio will need to view your Google Analytics data.
Go ahead and click allow.
From here, let's hover over the Google Analytics connector and hit select.
On the bottom left of the screen you'll see a list
of the Google Analytics accounts that you have access to.
If you're working with your own data or the data of a website or
a mobile app from a customer or a client and you have access to it,
it should appear here.
If you've already gone ahead and gained access to
the Google merchandise store demo account which we've used earlier in the Nanodegree.
It should also appear here.
Go ahead and click on the demo account.
Now, it's going to ask you which property within that account.
The Google merchandise store only has one.
We will select that.
Now, it's asking you which view.
Because when working in Data Studio we don't run
the danger of overriding any data in Google Analytics.
We're going to go ahead and do our report based on the master view.
Go ahead and select that as well.
Now, all that is waiting for us to do is click connect.
What we have here is an index.
Right now Google has gone ahead and using the connector it has demonstrated a list
for us of all of the fields available in the Google Analytics account,
property and view that we selected and is assigning them a field name,
a type, whether or not aggregation is active and finally description.
There's no report here.
We haven't done anything yet to generate a report.
Right now we know that our Google connector has worked and that
Data Studio is now going to be pulling
data from the Google Analytics account that we set up.
Next, we'll take a look at some different kinds of charts we can
populate using some of the fields that we're just mapped through the connector.